---
title: "AI or Real?"
date: 2026-04-16
layout: post
image: /assets/img/ai-or-real.jpeg
thumbnail: /assets/img/ai-or-real.jpeg
---

I had a great time presenting our latest work on the General Motors collaboration with NVIDIA PhysicsNeMO DoMINO evaluation at the SAE WCX external aerodynamics session today. A huge thank you to everyone who joined the discussion, and a special shout-out to Vishal Raul for pioneering the SciML vision at General Motors Research and Development, and the NVIDIA team for their incredible collaboration.

I closed my talk with the slide below. Yeah I know, it's cheesy, but I thought this might be effective. Just a few years ago, we mocked AI generated images. Today, AI-generated images are nearly indistinguishable from reality.

I believe Scientific Machine Learning (SciML) is on a similar trajectory. The evolution from CNNs and GNNs to Transformer-based architectures like Neural Operators, and many other proprietary architectures actively developed by startups and ISVs are rapidly closing the gap between traditional CFD and AI-driven inference. SciML may not replace high-fidelity CFD, but the way we approach simulation and design optimization in a few years may look quite different from today, with SciML applications augmented by Agentic AI.

However, the elephant in the room remains: The training data. It is expensive, scarce, and siloed. We'll need to come up with something to move forward with SciML.

I’d love to hear your thoughts on where SciML is headed. If you’re at hashtag#SAEWCX, let’s connect! I’ll be around tomorrow (4/16) as well. Feel free to DM me to catch up.
