---
title: "AI Grad Student: Research in the age of Agentic AI"
date: 2026-03-07
layout: post
#image: /assets/img/data_pipeline_comparison.jpeg
#thumbnail: /assets/img/data_pipeline_comparison.jpeg
---

CAE engineers are a unique breed. We are border riders between physics and IT. For us, HPC is a close friend, and we have to understand the infrastructure to do our day job. Every CAE engineer has a personal library of scripts, whether in Python or Bash (and yes, Bash is a programming language!), for populating jobs, monitoring queues, killing processes with specific patterns, and aggregating outputs into CSVs. We've always been the masters of our own automation.

Recently, as I’ve gone deeper into Scientific Machine Learning (SciML), VS Code has become my bread and butter. While I admired the context-awareness of tools like Claude Code, I recently learned during a GitHub Copilot Immersive Session that I could achieve that same "agentic" workflow right inside VS Code using copilot-instructions.md.

I defined my bsub wrapper commands and workspace structure (source, data farm, runs) in the instructions file. It took more efforts than I expected. Then yesterday, I finished the instructions file, and gave Copilot a small challenge:
"Grab this and that data, create a template YAML pointing to them for training, and populate an ablation study with these specific parameters."

Without typing a single bsub command, I had 16 jobs active in the queue in seconds. No more "for filename in \*.YAML; do vim -e "%s/.../g | wq" ; submit_job.sh --config $filename --mode train; done". Then it showed a summary of submitted jobs, associated LSFIDs with job description, and path to each run, which I asked to save as a markdown and a csv. It is building a complete logbook.

We are moving away from being manual script-writers and toward being Workflow Orchestrators. I’ll be spending my weekend with VS Code and Claude, building a few agents to replicate a viral AI assistant I’ve been following: https://lnkd.in/dEjh-W7i

The Engineering Grammar is changing. Productivity is skyrocketing. Our engineering mindset needs to evolve to keep pace with the speed of AI.
